[MUSIC] Okay, so back in our code editor and
I'm located in Lecture30 folder, which is located in
fullstack-course5/examples folder. And this is again,
our shopping list directive app. And the goal of task right
now is to provide a button next to each list item and let the user
click it and it will get removed. Except we'll going to try
to accomplish this task in a little bit of a wrong way first. And what were going to do is, we're going to supply this bad-remove
attribute on our shopping list directive. And we're going to pass the actual
function directly as a reference to our directive. If we go to ab.gs, we'll see here
that on our directive itself we're going to create a badRemove property,
and we're going to use an equal sign. So it will be a bidirectional binding,
and the function value of that remove that we're going to pass in is going
to be equal to this badRemove property. In the actual service remove method,
or controller I should say. In the actual controller remove method
we're going to have one more thing. Let me actually close to see but what
we're going to do is we're going to have one more side effect here along comment
and we're going to create a property under this keyword which means since we're using
control s syntax is gong to be attached to the controllers instance and
it's going to be called lastRemoved. Basically whenever somebody
passes as an itemIndex we're going to look that itemIndex
up in our this.items array, and save the name of that item
in the lastRemoved property. In the index.html we're going
to place a real quick span here, and we'll say, Last or list.lastRemoved. So now we're going to output
whatever it is that is last removed right inside of our controller. This list is the label for
our shopping list controller. If we go to the shoppinglist.html which
is the template for our directive, we're going to see here a button and
the button says, list.badRemoved. And badRemoved is our function and we're able to obviously take a function
reference which is what this is. Surrounded with parenths and
execute it, passing it our dollar sign, did the index switches the index in the
list that somebody's clicking to remove and the button name is
going to be Bad Remove. Just to look back at index.html
we have our badRemove Attribute map to list.remove items. So it's the removeItem function value that
is being assigned to this badRemove and then that badRemoved gets called right
here inside of our directive template. Okay, let's save that. And let's go to the browser and
let's try to add item test 1. We'll just say test for
now, we'll click that item, we'll see the Bad Remove button. Test 2 click add item button,
test 3 and click the add item button. One more thing let's go take
a look at when we go to the code is that I printed out this console.log. This is, and I'm printing out what
the this variable is pointing to. Just as important, so
we'll be able to look at the console and see when we attach
the this.lastRemoved and this.title, where is this actually
pointing to at the time that we call it? Let's go back to our browser and
let's go ahead and actually open the console so
we could see what's going on. Open the console here and
let's go ahead and try to click bad remove item number one. When we click here we see that for
some reason we don't have any kind of announcement
here what the last removed item was. If we take a look at our console I
think it's going to give us a clue. This is, and remember this right now
is being called from the remove item method that is sitting on our controller
that is the main controller and if we take a look this is
ShoppingListDirectiveController. So it's not the shopping list controller, it's shopping list directed controller
which is not what we want because. Because ShoppingListDirectiveController is
the controller for our isolate scope and we wanted this to execute in
the parent controller's scope. As you could see, all these things that we thought were
being assigned on the parent controller scope are actually being assigned
directly to our directives isolate scope. And that's why you see
that the title still says list number 1 has 3 items in it,
and so what happened to the title? Well, when we said this.title and updated
of the title with two items, it when had and created that title, the title property
on our ShoppingListDirectiveController. Meanwhile the actual
shopping list controller doesn't know anything about this. Let's go back to the code editor and actually take a look as to why
something like that is happening. I actually created this this.html and
it's just referencing this.js so we will be able to see what's going on. And here's a quick example on
the microcosm as to what's going on here in our controllers. Suppose we have this function
called Person and it says, this.fullName is Yaakov,
this.fav is Cookies. And we have one method on the subject,
which is the function and now what it's doing is loading to the console and
says, this.fullName likes this.fav. If we now go ahead and create this yaakov
object with the called the new person, as we should, that this variable inside of this object
will be pointing to the person object. And when we call yakov.describe, in other words this method, this will
still be pointing to the Person object, and therefore, you'll be able
to reference fullName and fave. So let's go ahead and
actually comment this out, for a second. Let's go ahead and save that, and
let's open this.html in the browser. And you'll see that the console says,
Yaakov likes cookies, very true. Now if we go back, and go to this.js, what
we're going to do now is we're going to pull out the method from
this yaakov object. After all, yaakov.describe without
the parenths is just a function value, so we could grab that value and
stick it in a local variable. And then since that local variable
is pointing to a function value, we can actually execute it just
by putting parenths behind it. If we save that and go back to
our browser, let's refresh that. You can see it already says
that undefined likes undefined. How come this is going on? Well, the reason this is going on is if we
actually put a console.log right inside of here, let's put a log statement here and
say, what exactly is this variable? Let's go ahead and say, this is,
what is the this variable? Let's go ahead and output this. You could see that the first time we go
around, this variable is the person but the second time going around,
this variable is actually the window. And the window doesn’t have
a full name and a fav. The reason this is happening is because we
took that method out of its context and its context became the window, because we were sitting after
all in the global scope. There is actually a java script solution
to that and it's called the call method. If you take the method that is
out of context, in other words, the this very well is pointing to
whatever the surrounding context is. You could actually give it context and
basically it will get that this variable assigned to whatever object
that you're passing it in the call method. So if we invoke describe with the call
method and pass it to object yaakov then this variable will all of a sudden
once again be pointing to yaakov. So if we save that and go back to
our browser you'll see that even though the first time it says undefined
undefined the next time this is is actually pointing back into Person and it
actually will say, Yaakov likes cookies. And this is what's happening
in our controller. If we go back, we could close this now, what's happening
in our controllers is that when this call is being made right here, this call is
being made just with a function reference. It's like a variable that was
yanked out of its context and now sitting in a different context,
in the case of the describe function in our this example, it was sitting
in the context of the window object. Well, in the case of this badRemove
example, it's sitting in the context of the directives controller, not of
the parent controller as we want it. So the solution is, is to use the app
reference and then pass a map of arguments that is mapped to how
we code this method, to begin with. So let's go to app.gs and what we're going to do now is we're
going to declare yet another attribute. And another attribute
will be called onRemove. And onRemove is going to
have an ampersand binding which means it's going to
be a reference binding. Will go to index.html and
we'll add one more button here or one more attribute and we'll call it
on-remove and this time we'll call list.remove item and
will pass it in index. Except as I told you as you remember this index is not something that the
ShoppingListController will be passing. This index is just a key for
our directive to be able to find and assign some value to it so all of
this will get executed in the context of the ShoppingListController not of
the ShoppingListDirectiveController. Let's go ahead and
actually put this back there. It'll look a little bit better that way. We'll go back to our shoppingList.html,
that is the template for our directive. Let's close the file browser so
it'll be easier to see, and we'll actually uncomment
this button right here. And if you take a look, it's list, which is the list of my
ShoppingListDirectiveController. onRemove, that's the property we mapped
on remove into the controller on our Isolate Scope, and then you could see
we're passing it an object that is a map. It's mapping the index,
if you take a look at the index.html, this is the index that we're mapping. So it's taking that index and it's saying it should be equal to at the
time you call this, it should be equal to that'll assign index, which is the index
through the loop at the moment. Now when we save it and go back to the
browser, we'll close our this example and we'll close this as well. And here is our directive with Isolate
Scope, let's go ahead and add test, well first of all it's not refreshing for
some reason, let's refresh it, here we go. Okay, so let's add our test 1,
add 1, so we have bad remove and with remove item will do test 2,
add Item and test 3 and add that item. And let's go ahead try
to caught Removed Item. Let's say Remove Test 2. Request Removed Test 2 you'll see that
the last item remove showed up here which means that property did
show up In the parent controller. And if we take a look,
in our remove item method, we logged what the variable
this pointed to. In this case, it's pointing to
the ShoppingListController which is exactly what we wanted. We wanted to execute that method In
the context of the ShoppingListController which is the parent of our directive. And if we take a look all the things
that we need are here and we see are here and we see the last
little property is here and the shopping list title also got updated
to two and therefore it's right there. If we remove it again, this time we remove
number 1, so it's number 1 and so on. So this is working. So once again, what allowed us
to be able to call this method in the context of the parent of
this directive is the reference that we declared onRemove property,
which is the ampersand that is giving us a reference to the function
such that it's going to get executed in its parent environment evaluating
all the properties like they should be. Okay, so let's summarize. The & binding allows us
to execute an expression, such as a function value in
the context of the parent scope. The way this is done is the following. The parent template must declare an
attribute providing the method reference for the directive to call on the parent,
and an argument keys for directive to bind values to when it needs
to pass the data from the isolate scope back to the parent scope. The directive on the other hand
calls the referenced method and also provides an object map of
argument key to value pairs. This allows the directive to pass data
back to the parent from the isolate scope.